---
title: 1. Install
draft: false
tags:
---
# Download

Download the latest iso version from [Downloads - Proxmox Virtual Environment](https://www.proxmox.com/en/downloads/proxmox-virtual-environment)

Use your favorite bootable usb creator and create a bootable usb from this iso.

# Installation

Make sure to disable Secure Boot. If Secure Boot is enabled Proxmox will be installed in legacy mode.

Insert the USB drive into the host and boot up the installer.
Due to not having a capture card there will be no screenshots provided for the setup.

Select Install Proxmox VE (Graphical).

Select I agree in the bottom right.

At the bottom center select the target drive you wish to install Proxmox on. In case you are using a single drive the default file system will be EXT4. In case you want to use the ZFS features on a single drive you can select zfs (RAID0) in the options. For my installation I will be using zfs (RAID1) on my SATA SSDs. In options after selecting zfs (RAID1), select "Deselect All" in the bottom right. Select the SATA SSDs as Harddisk 0 and 1.

Select Next in the bottom right.

Fill in your location and timezone.

Country: Belgium
Timezone: Europe/Brussels
Keyboard layout: U.S. English

Select Next in the bottom right.

Enter your root password and your e-mail address. This e-mail address will be attached to the root user for alerting.

Select Next in the bottom right.

Enter the FQDN of your host and the static IP address.

Hostname: hv01.home.xalnet.cc

Select Next in the bottom right.

Check the summary and select Install in the bottom right.
Your host will reboot after the installation has been completed.